If there's one thing we have learned this entire time and this course is that there is nothing static
about being a web developer.
Improvements are constantly made all the time in HTML, CSS and Javascript and even the browsers,
get constantly updated.
Libraries are also constantly being created.
If you remember libraries are just pieces of code they could be CSS they could be HTML they could
be Javascript. Pieces of code written by somebody else so that we can use it.
So we don't have to start from scratch.
Now it's human nature to want to constantly improve.
And in this video we're going to learn the new features that everybody will be using.
But first, let's recap something from our previous videos. If you remember javascript was created by the
Netscape browser and everybody else all the other browsers started using javascript.
So Netscape submitted javascript to something called the ECMA International.
So that javascript could be standardized and they could say, hey, everybody use this version of javascript
on all browsers.
That's what ECMA Script is ECMA Script is well, it's javascript
But it's just the standard way of calling it so that when the browsers implement what
javascript should do and how they read javascript Well everybody agrees on the standard.
Now every time you see something like this like ES6 and you'll see that quite a lot, ES6 just stands
for the ECMAscript version 6.
So yes there was Ecmascript version 1 all the way through 6 and we're currently at Version 7 but
it's still new so we're only learning version 5 and version 6 for now.
But version 5 and version 6 introduce some new features that are really really powerful and make coding
in javascript really really nice.
And most code bases that you'll see in 2018 will be using these features.
It's a very very exciting topic for me it's one of my favorite parts of javascript now and I'm excited
to show you some of these new features that will make your life a whole lot easier.
Now one thing you might be thinking though is, Ah! Andre I don't want to learn something if browsers don't
support them and I can't actually use them.
But Uh! don't worry my friend.
These are all features that are supported, you know why?
Well mainly because of something called BABEL.
You see a few years ago programmer created BABEL so that developers can start using new javascript features
as they come.
Remember ECMAScript releases versions all the time, now without having to wait for browsers to implement
these features.
BABEL, allowed us to, well to use them right away.
Now how do they do that?
Let's have a look,
If I go in to try it out here, you'll see that BABEL shows me something I can write, and will learn
the syntax soon enough don't worry, I can't write something like this, which is the new way of writing
javascript with ECMAScript 6 and it compiles into this.
Now what does that mean.
It means that it reads a file line by line, and then changes it to a version of javascript that all browsers
know and it works on all browsers.
When we actually deploy our application or web site which means putting it online after we're done with it,
we can use BABEL to say hey read our javascript file and transform it into this, so it works on
all browsers.
So without even thinking about it you can write
all your code in the newest and best way of writing it.
You can see how clean this is and BABEL will take care of changing everything for you
so that browsers can read it.
Isn't that awesome? Enough of that.
Let's learn some new syntaxes.
And don't be afraid.
ES5 and ES6 made javascript a whole lot easier and more fun to writ. From now on will we take what
we learn in this video to write all our code because it's what the industry is using right now.
And this is why you will get asked during interviews.
So let's get started.
The first feature I'm going to show you is 'let' and 'const'.
These are actually very very simple.
These are new ways of declaring variables.
So if you see over here in our section out-line, you see that javascript variables has now, two new ways
of declaring a variable, and as a matter of fact variable that we've been using up to this point, we don't
really need to use it ever again.
We now have something called 'let', to show you how both of these work.
Let's do a small example.
I'm going to say 'const player' and 'const' stands for constant, will say 'bobby' and will say
'let experience equals to hundred' and will say
'let wizardLevel equal to false'. Now if I do something, like 'if experience is greater than 90 then
(let wizardLevel) equals to true'.
OK, so these look like variables nothing's different.
Let's run this through the console and see what happens.
OK.
If I now check 'wizardLevel', I get 'false'
Hmmm! that's, that's strange right because in the previous video where we talked about the scope for
had 'wizardLevel' has a variable, I would have gotten 'true' here.
So if this was variable and this was variable 'wizardLevel' instead of being 'false' will be 'true'.
Now that's confusing right.
That's because it's not inside of a function.
This is a little bit tricky but with variable we only were able to create a scope, inside of a function,
but never if it had a curly brackets.
But inside of 'if'.
With 'let', when I say 'let' and 'let', well,
now I've created a 'wizardLevel' variable inside of 'if' so the only way that I can access this is inside
the 'if'.
If I do 'console.log(wizardLevel)' here
and 'console.log(wizardLevel)' outside and then let's put 'inside'
and 'outside'. If I copy this, paste that in, 'inside', I get 'true', 'outside',
I get 'false', because now with 'let', any time it's wrapped around a curly bracket, well it creates a new
scope, versus with a variable,
if I change this to a variable(var)
and I copy this again and refresh,
if I copy this, I get 'inside', equals to 'true' and 'outside' equals to 'true', because 'wizardLevel' has already
been changed.
No new scope is created, inside the curly brackets because this isn't a function.
Now I know that's a really really confusing.
But the one big takeaway from this is, just don't use variable(var) any more. variables(var) is actually quite confusing.
Now think of 'let' as the new variable.
So from now on we're going to be using 'let' for variables but what is 'const'.
Well 'const' is even cooler.
Watch this.
If I want to change the experience level, I can say 'experience equals 80'.
And now if I look at 'experience',
Well 'experience' equals 80.
But if I want to change the player 'Bobby' to a new name, equals 'Sally', I get an error,
'Assignment to constant variable'.
What that means is, as a constant,
you're not able to reassign to the variable. So it cannot be updated.
Now, why would that be useful?
It's really really useful because a lot of bugs happen when you're working in a team of people.
If you have something like 'player' and somebody changes the name of the player while you're working on
a program and you still think it's 'Bobby' and you keep getting errors
because somebody else has touched it.
Well that's, that's a bit of an issue isn't it.
But using 'const', you make sure, that this player variable will always have the same value.
So this is actually a very very useful and my recommendation is that if you have anything that isn't
going to change it should be a constant.
So a function could be a constant because well if this function or if the assignment of 'a' is not going
to change, then we feel a lot safer using 'const' than let's say 'let' because we make sure that nobody
assigns something else to 'a'.
So the rule from now on is use 'const',
If you're using a variable that doesn't change, most of the time you'll use this, and you're using a variable
die your re-assign something to like Wizard level where it changes from 'true' to 'false'
'false' to 'true'.
Well then use 'let'.
One thing with 'const' that you have to keep in mind is that if you do a 'const' object(obj) equals 'player'
'bobby', 'experience', 'one hundered' and
'WizardLevel' to 'false'.
Well, if I copy this object and try to reassign this object to say a number, I get an error because
it's a constant.
But! if I try and change a property
now my 'wizardLevel' isto 'true'.
So one thing with constant is, you can change the properties of the objects,
still you just can't reassign the variable.
All right on to more fun things.
Let's do Destructuring.
And this one I'm going to show you are going to make your life a whole lot easier.
Again if we actually have our 'object(obj)' here, let's say that we wanted to grab these objects, so we'll have
to do 'const player equals object(obj).player' will do,
'const experience equals object(obj).experience' and then a 'let wizardLevel'
equals 'object(obj).wizardLevel'.
And it was a whole lot of typing to access these properties.
Well with destructuring, you can do this you can say 'const player' and 'experience'
from the object.
So with this syntax, it does the exact same thing as the first two lines over here, you just select the
properties you want from an object.
And now you have 'const' 'player' and 'experience' available to you so you can use 'player' anywhere you want
in your codebase and then for 'let' we can do 'wizardLevel' equals 'object(obj)', much much cleaner.
You just have to get used to it but it's a lot nicer to look at.
All right another thing cool thing you can do with objects. 'const' name equals 'john snow'.
We can just start a new object here and we can say now 'name' is 'hello'
and we can do 'ray', 'smith'
'hihi'.
All right.
So this is a silly object but I wanted to show you some new ways of declaring object properties
Now, in ES6 you can have,
instead of the old way of having just 'player' or 'experience' or 'wizardLevel'
we can have something dynamic that we can assign like 'john snow' or we can do 'ray' plus 'smith' or we can
do 'one' plus 'two' and have these dynamic property values.
Let me show you of how they work.
If I access object(obj) now, I have three equals.
'hihi'.
And 'john snow' equals 'hello'
Again new ways of declaring properties, very useful if you need to calculate something for the
property value.
But even cooler is being able to do something like this.
Imagine you had a
'const a' equals to
'simon'
'const b' equals to 'true'.
And 'const c' is an empty object.
And if we wanted to add these to an object, we would have had to do 'a' is a, 'b' is b, and 'c' is c, and sometimes
you wanted the property to match the value.
Again with the new javascript.
If property and value are the same in that case, we can just say a, b, c so we can remove, we can remove the
declaration that we have with property and value if they're the same and just keep it like this.
Again this is something that when we get to the Riact's section it's going to become very very useful.
All right, something even more fun and this time its template strings so 'Template strings'.
Now remember when we have, let's say a greeting, how annoying it was that we had to do.
"Hello "
'name'
plus 'you seem to be doing' plus 'greeting' and then say you had an exclamation mark and you also had to
worry about backslash if you had an apostrophe.
That was really tedious and annoying.
Now, if you knew something really fun, instead of doing it this way.
You can have 'greetingBest'
equals something called Templates strings and these are back ticks.
So the back ticks of this is right above your Tab key.
If you're on a Mac instead of using double quotes or single quotes, this means template strings and now
you can use double quotes or single quotes anywhere you want and it will be a string.
But even cooler if you have 'name' equals "Sally" and 'age' equals "34".
'pet' is "horse".
Now we can do,
'Hello'
'name'
'you seem to be', notice the syntax and the coloring.
'age' minus 10
'What a lovely' pet($pet)
'you have'
so notice what we did here.
I'm going to copy this just so we have it, when I comment this out.
Now if I look into the console I'll refresh.
You see that now instead of doing all that double quotes and plus and worrying about spacing within these back ticks,
I can say a piece of string and then add dynamically by using the dollar sign then the
curly brackets are a value that we want.
We can again do any sort of expression.
So 'age' minus 10.
'What a lovely pet($pet) you have'
Let's see what happens, if I do,
'greetingBest'. Look at that,
"Hello Sally.
You seem to be 24".
"What a lovely horse you have".
Very cool.
So this is very very useful will be definitely using this, late on in the course.
Another thing I want to show you is 'default arguments', that can do something like 'greet' we'll say 'name'
equals empty string, 'age' equals '30' and we'll say.
'pet' is a "cat".
Let's just copy what we had before.
With the greeting, I'm going to comment this out
and will return this.
So nothing's changed.
We just have a function that returns a greeting.
The only thing that's new is this, let me show you what it does.
If I comment this out, I copy this put it into the console, and now I run 'greet', "Hello you seem to be 20."
"What a lovely cat you have".
Did you catch that, even though our browser, and let me just refresh, so you know for sure that our browser has
no idea of what age or pet is.
But, if I run this function
because of the way I made the parameters, I gave them default arguments which says if, I don't provide
a value for name which I haven't, I haven't given any arguments.
Well then make.
'name' empty string, make 'age' '30', and make 'pet', 'cat', if do now, 'greet', 'John', '50' and we'll do "monkey".
Now I get,
"Hello John you seem to be 40.""
"What a lovely monkey you have". This gets ignored because I passed it parameters but otherwise I can pass
a default parameter so that when somebody calls this function and they don't provide these arguments
my function won't fail because well I have default arguments.
Very cool.
All right.
What else do we have.
Let's refresh here, if you remember we had one more type to do 'JAVASCRIPT TYPES' and that is a 'Symbol'.
It's actually not used very often but I wanted to show you just because while it's a type of, we want to
complete the seven types of javascript, and a symbol is special because if I've symbol one(sym1), I create a symbol
by doing this index and I could have a second symbol(sym2) that is 'symbol()'.
And within here we can put anything, we can put 'foo' and variable(var) symbol 3(sym3) equals 'Symbol()' and we'll
say 'foo' as well.
What's so unique about symbols,
ooh! we should be using 'let' here.
If I copy this, and I access 'sym1', I get "symbol()" access 'sym2', I get "foo", and 'sym3' I get "foo".
But the unique thing is that if I do 'sym2' equals 'sym3', I get false.
Even though, well they look like they're the exact same thing, and symbols are used because they create
these completely unique type. So that you can make sure there's never going to be any conflict.
And the symbol value is used as an indentifier mostly for object properties.
It's pretty much the only purpose of that because sometimes you don't want object properties if you
have thousands of them to collide and be the same ones because then they'll get bugs.
We won't see it too much and of course you won't see it out in the wild too much but I wanted to show
you it regardless because while we want to know all the javascript types.
All right.
One last one, I know we've covered a lot but this is the best one and that is 'arrow functions'.
Up to this point, if we wanted to do something like add we had to do 'a', 'b' and 'return a' plus 'b'.
And you might have gotten sick and tired of constantly writing function over and over and over.
Well now you have arrow functions.
So with an arrow function you can do, Look at that,
so any time you see this syntax.
Oop! and I had to pass 'a' and 'b' here as well,
anytime you see this syntax it's the same thing as saying function but now is just the shorthand form
so that you don't have to constantly write function.
And the beauty of it, is that you could have done 'return a' and 'b' and that completely works.
So the only difference is that we have, a function expression that accepts a parameter and we have this
fat arrow, but with an arrow function.
If you have a single return,
well, you can just put it on one line, and it assumes that you want to return this.
If I save this and copy it in here, oop! I don't need this syntax.
Let's copy that one more time 'add 4 and 2'.
That's the first function and then the new way with the arrow function.
'add2', '4' '2'.
Again I get the same thing.
It returns automatically because everything, well it's on one line.
It looks very very nice, a lot easier to write than the above.
And there you have it.
I know that was a lot of information.
Make sure you do the exercises after this video to get yourself familiar with the syntax,
is just new ways of doing things.
These are going to help you to write better, cleaner code.
And just to show you what we've covered, well you've managed to finish everything and the section outline.
From variables to conditionals, to finally the arrow function.
We've covered everything that we wanted to for javascript and moving forward.
We're going to be using these new syntaxes to write our code.
I hope you're excited as I am to start using these.
I'll see you in the next one.
Buh-bye.